The Student Executive Board of the Faculty of Theology and the Faculty of Biotechnology UKDW held the 2020 Essay Writing Competition with the theme “Climate Change and Sustainable Development” to celebrate Earth Day, an annual event observed on April 22 to demonstrate support for environmental protection. Despite the COVID-19 pandemic, this competition received a good reception, with 237 participants from 41 universities in Indonesia.

The jury comprises of Pdt. Em. Prof. Dr. (h.c.). E.Gerrit Singgih, PhD., Pdt. Dr. Josef M.N. Hehanussa, M.Th., Pdt. Dr. Wahyu Nugroho, MA. from the Faculty of Theology and Dr. Charis Amarantini, M.Si., Drs. Kisworo, M.Sc., and Drs. Djoko Rahardjo, M.Kes from the Faculty of Biotechnology. Following the assessment by the jury, three winners were finally announced on Monday, July 13, 2020.

The first place went to Jekonia Tarigan from Universitas Gajah Mada Yogyakarta with the essay title “Mungkin Bukan Tuan, Hanya Saudara yang Sedang Bertamu: Selayang Pandang Terhadap Persoalan Pentingnya Peran Narasi Religius untuk Mendorong Manusia Melestarikan Alam”.

The second place was won by Muhamad Syarifudin from Universitas Brawijaya Malang with his essay “Pemanfaatan Kotoran Manusia Menjadi Energi Listrik Berbasis Aplikasi Mobile Guna Mewujudkan Perekonomian Berkelanjutan Warga Desa Kedunggede Mojokerto di Era Revolusi”.

Meanwhile, Lawrence Billy Vasco Djama from the Faculty of Biotechnology UKDW took third place with his essay “Cassava Waste Pulp sebagai Bahan Pembuatan Masker dengan Mikrofilter Berbasis Biopolimer yang Terdegradasi Menjadi Helianthus L”.

According to the Vice Dean for Student Affairs, Alumni, and Partnership of the Faculty of Biotechnology Drs. Djoko Rahardjo, M.Kes, this essay competition aimed to expand students’ knowledge and understanding of global warming and its impact on climate change, stimulate students’ creativity about a cross-discipline solution to address the impact of climate change to the environment, health, and sustainable development, and to raise awareness to actively take part in climate change mitigation and adaptation at local, regional, national, as well as international level.

“We hope this essay competition was able to increase the young generation’s interest, commitment, and courage to become initiators and innovators in the climate change mitigation and countermeasures,” he concluded. (Source: Bio/Djoko)